Small Description
Arvak Companion overhaul the Summon Arvak's Spell. It adds a progression system and allow Arvak to "evolve", including new abilities, stats, and appearance. 
It is meant to be compatible and only edit 2 vanilla record. It doesn't include a horse following system.

Feature
The spell "Summon Arvak" is now toggleable: while active, Arvak is summoned near you and while inactive/on dispell, Arvak is sent back to the Soul Cairn.
Arvak level with player. Has custom combat style & class.
Arvak now cast the spell "Soul Trap" each time he use his -weak- attack, and depending on his progression he can stagger on his -strong- attack.
Each time you capture a soul marked by Arvak's Soul Trap you earn the soul gem and please the Ideal Masters, allowing Arvak to regain/gain some power.
At some point, Arvak will be allowed to cast, from a certain distance, different purple colored vanilla destruction spell. (note: no projectile will be shown).
You will be able to toggle between melee and ranged mode thanks to an added power telling Arvak to briefly summon his old rider for you (talk to him).
Arvak can "evolve" and slightly change appearance using edited meshes & textures from Phorce's "The Elder Scrolls V Rewritten". (with permission, thanks!)
Should be compatible with anything as it only edit 2 rarely modded vanilla record (obviously no other Arvak mod is compatible).

Overview of the Evolution System
Firstly, I want to warn you that this is my first mod. And that I'm unsure about the lore friendly-ness but I did go through the trouble to read -a little bit- about it and I hope I don't break too much of it..

Lore: 
Arvak is trapped in Soul Cairn, and while his rider managed to create a spell allowing you to conjure him out of the Soul Cairn, it comes with a cost: Arvak's capabilities and your own.
To reduce such discomfort, the Ideal Masters are inclined to bargain with you and Arvak: In exchange for trapped souls to satisfy their hunger, they will progressively send back some of Arvak's power and, while at it, allow you to conjure him more easily.

Description:
Each time Arvak use his -weak- attack he also cast the spell "Soul Trap" for you. If you successfully kill these marked target, you will fill a soul gem and progress in Arvak's evolution. At some point, Arvak will evolve to the next stage, allowing him to gain buff and abilities. It will also lessen the burden he has on you. You or Arvak only have debuff if Arvak is outside of Soul Cairn. In Soul Cairn, Arvak has infinite Stamina and increased regeneration.
Also if you are undead (vampire) you will not receive any debuff (only Arvak will).

STAGE -1
Arvak's captured soul < 1
Arvak: -75 Speed
Player: -75 Stamina, Health, Magicka

STAGE 0
1 =< Arvak's captured soul < 10
Arvak: -40 Speed
Player: -75 Stamina, Health, Magicka

STAGE 1
10 =< Arvak's captured soul < 20
Arvak: -20 Speed, he is now allowed to use ranged attacks (firebolt) and you can summon his old rider.
Player: -40 Stamina, Health, Magicka

STAGE 2
20 =< Arvak's captured soul < 30
Arvak: -10 Speed, ability to do -strong- melee attack. Can stagger.
Player: -20 Stamina, Health, Magicka

STAGE 3
30 =< Arvak's captured soul < 60
Arvak: Ability to do -strong- ranged attack (fire ball), AOE
Player: none

STAGE 4
60 =< Arvak's captured soul < 90
Arvak: +100 health & stamina, +30 speed, both melee attack are stronger.

STAGE 5
100 =< Arvak's captured soul < 150
Arvak: +200 health & stamina, +50 speed, both ranged attack are stronger

STAGE 6
150 =< Arvak's captured soul
Arvak: +250 health & stamina, +70 speed, both melee are stronger, -strong- attack can knockdown and has less cooldown.	
	
Note: 
Keep in mind that Arvak will still level with you. I believe his spell are affected by player's perk but it is untested.
Arvak will only evolve at the end of the combat while you're not ridding him.
If Arvak "die" he will be sent back to the Soul Cairn and you won't be able to summon him for 24h ingame hours.
You can check Arvak's stats and traded souls at his shrine in Soul Cairn.
Arvak will not evolve if he is KO'ed in battle. You will have to wait until he recovered and trap one more soul.
		
			
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	